I am going to call to order the Todd
Vand over board and special meeting
Friday, October 24th, 124.
Uh, and our first order of business is
the pledge of allegiance.
I pledge algiance
>> to the flag of the United States of
America and to the republic for which it
stands. One nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice
for all.
>> Okay.
Um
this special meeting has been called
this to sit there and get an
understanding of uh community center and
staffing issues. So first uh item two is
public. So um Julia, how would you like
to start?
getting you getting coffee.
>> Is he getting coffee?
>> No.
>> Good.
>> Um, well, I've been a regular here since
it opened.
I don't attend
all the events because they're not
always my personal interest, but I do
enjoy immensely the ones that have been
my favorites. One of which is cherry
yoga and the others I've done some of
the craft ones too.
Before the senior center opened, I kind
of had
no hope it was ever going to happen.
>> So I had been going regularly to Bolton
and Vernon. Vernon is 25 years old. They
built their senior center when it ran
around the first time to be voted on.
Got totally voted down here
back when Jean Gasper was involved and
other people that names you remember
were still alive.
And um so I decided
that now I really was a senior and so I
was going to go to these other towns.
For $15 you get a lifetime membership
and they do fantastic variety of things.
Many of which are now on the roster here
which is nice. I went to a chair yoga
class for two or three years in Bolton
and I've been I was going to half the
time I go to Bolton, the other half I go
to Vernon. Vernon had um speakers.
Um they were both quite a bit the
physical plant was a lot bigger than
this and they had an auditorium and they
had people come and talk to seniors
about how to save money on their
electric bill. um they'd have authors
come with the books they written about
some adventure in their lives or their
famil family's lives and they would talk
about the book and you could buy it if
you wanted to. There was a nice variety
of events. um
the um they used their auditorium like
we use this room and they'd have u
performers come that would sing and he
just have a sing songfest was very very
enjoyable. So, I just kept going. But I
was delighted when
this facility got up and running. And I
am not I keep saying I should go back to
Bolton for one or two things, you know,
but I never get get there because this
keeps growing in the ability to pull me
here and why not? It's my hometown
and the activities and the variety
that's offered, the speakers have been
very good.
And I love the chair yoga class. That's
one of my favorites. Tina and I come
twice a week once to cherog and the
other to strength was strong and steady.
And another interesting aspect of this
that I learned
fairly recently. I have United Healthc
Care for my
insurance and they give me credit
for coming to chair yoga
and any kind of exercise class at my
age. And not only that,
they see a value in the social
interaction and they here's another
benefit to getting that you can get from
them from just attending events at a
senior center and they they put it out
on a regular basis and I do that. So I
qualify for two little.
>> That means you can donate more to the
senior center.
>> Perfect. Julia, thank you for your
question. I appreciate it.
>> All right.
>> Um, does anybody have any other
questions?
>> I have a question.
>> Well, who's that?
>> Okay. Is that okay for me to ask?
>> Well, I'm trying to do public speak, so
I'm trying to go this way. She was just
up first.
>> Julie, you good?
>> Um,
>> it's just public speech.
>> Okay. You can you can ask me that way.
>> You can talk.
>> I think that Joe does.
>> I'm all set. You're all good, Bill. Um,
first like to say this is, you know,
I've already mentioned some of the
history with Vernon and having to go
other places for this and I think this
is a great this center is a great asset
for the community. I have had haven't
had the opportunity to take classes or
things like that, but as a member of the
Greater Hartford Foundation, the Andover
Committee, we did have an event here.
So, this is great for things like that
for events. So, um, so I'm here to to
learn more about about the facility and
going forward in the operations.
And uh right now I cycle a lot so I will
come here to do things but at some point
I'll be coming and attending the chair
with you Julie and
>> uh thank you all and I leave early. It's
due to a lack of interest or maybe in
the deep for a rail trail ride so that's
why I'll be leaving early.
>> Colleaga.
>> There you go. Thank you.
>> Well I'm a new in town. I only moved
here a couple of years ago and I wasn't
able to attend anything because um I was
taking care of my husband who was sick.
The last year I started to attend the
meetings and come and became more and
more involved. It just great I think for
the retired people to meet each other to
even chat for a few minutes on the bus.
It's it's I think it's quite big.
>> I love all the um arrangements here or
the programs. I do yoga. I love it. I
play do those and
>> killer do I play with I just learned it.
She wins all the time.
>> All the programs the program with the
kids traveling time and the previous
ones it just
It brings me closer and lets me know the
town more than I have in India.
>> So I love it.
>> Thank you.
>> I I don't know.
>> Kathy
>> Kathy,
>> thank you.
>> Yeah, I'm Kathy Campin and I am a former
employee of Andover Public Library. So
the budgeting in Andover uh pretty much
paid for my job. But what I'd like to
address because uh I also agree with
everyone that said everything here and
have been able to attend programs and
will continue to support and attend
programs. But I would like you to look
at the budgeting part of this because
when you put together an idea of having
a facility like this that combines the
senior community with the community in
general, not only do you have to worry
about I'm sure what Eric went through
going down the whole list of this is
what I need for building, this is when
it's going to happen, this is the space
I need, and last of all, How do I fund
this adequately
so it can operate?
Because otherwise you're giving us a
gift and saying don't open that.
>> Yeah.
>> Because we can't afford to give you
what's inside the package. Now, when I
was working at the library, I had a set
number of hours.
And
what happens cuz I'm a really nice
person is I couldn't get it done within
those hours. So what did I do? Who
knows? What did I do?
>> Volunteered.
>> I stayed and worked
>> for free. I have an education, a degree
in children's education, K through 12. I
was not being paid at that level. I was
being paid at the level somebody walked
in at the street. But what did I do? I
made programs of art and interest that
involved children, that involved adults.
In fact, if I hadn't been doing that, we
would not have the lower level of the
library to use because I was
grandfathered in because I brought a
chair from home and a rug and a lamp and
proved that it had been an active space.
Um, and I wanted that to continue. So,
my
my uh assessment of what's happening
here is the same thing as what happened
to me. And I want to prevent the fact
that we have people that are going to
have to
volunteer their time, which equates to
money, but might not equate to their
education and their experience.
Therefore, we might not be able to have
them. And that package would have the
wrapping open just a little bit so we
could see what's there. The programs
that could happen here won't happen.
They will not have the time to research
what's out there, who's available, when
can we have it, coordinate the calendar
and the money, whatever budget they
have. So, what I want you to think of is
um
>> you know, you you allow your kid to have
a license, right?
>> But then you give them the car keys
>> and no money for gas.
>> So, that sits there and we look at it as
what it could be, but we need to give
the town has to give our employees in
this facility gas money to go forward.
Thank you. Very good.
>> Can I get your name?
>> Ruth.
>> And Ruth is here as one of the program
uh
>> visitors. Yeah. So she comes and we
would not have met had that been.
>> Uh so and we also have other out of town
people that come because it's a senior
center opening.
>> Ruth, you're providing gas money.
Well, we're hoping that the town
provides that gas. It's
>> all right. Volunteers can provide gas.
Kim,
>> you're up. Can I speak public speak?
>> Um,
>> you can say no. I'd be okay with that.
>> Okay. No, I think that the community
center is on track. Um, you have
wonderful staff, wonderful volunteers,
but I think it needs more town support.
I know if if we get more people
involved, we get the word out there, I I
think we can go pretty far with this.
>> Okay, Liz.
>> Uh I don't really have anything to say
at this point. I pass it off,
>> Diane.
>> Okay. I agree with everything everybody
said. Again, it's a beautiful building.
The staff is wonderful. Programming is
coming along delightfully. And um I I
applaud everybody that uh has a hand in
making this what it is today. and we're
looking forward to um the future growth.
And while I'm at it, I'd also like to
thank Elaine Bukard for videotaping
these meetings, all the meetings that
she does. I think that's a it's a
wonderful thing and I don't think you
get enough appreciation. So, thank you
Ela for
giving her a chance to speak.
>> Oh, Kathy.
>> Um okay, I will speak. First, I want to
say that uh Kathy Camden, I've known her
for many years and she helped she helped
on Wednesdays to bring up my great my
grandson. He is now 22. So, that's how
long I've known her before then, but
that's how long I've really known Kathy
and she's done a superb job. I felt
really bad when she left the library.
But getting up to this wonderful
building, Mike and I were part of the
original building committee and I think
that everyone that was on the committee
know Scott Pson on was on the committee.
Um, and I know how hard he worked to get
a great building for you. Uh, coming to
the staff my, you know, everybody has a
vision. So my vision way back when I was
a senior coordinator and the head of
transportation and prior to that the
municipal agent and prior to that uh a
register of voters. So
>> wait wait wait
all volunteer right
>> all volunteer.
>> Correct. Well no no no register voter.
No
>> no
>> remember you get paid for register vote.
>> You didn't mention register of voters
until just then all those other things
volunteer. Right.
>> Right. Right. Right.
>> Thank you. That's You're welcome here.
>> Big volunteer.
>> That's not what I That's not the point
I'm trying to make. Um I'm trying to
make the point that at my vision was I
thought we should have a person that was
transportation person. And guess what?
You gave me one. We have Linda. She's
great. She's doing a really good job for
you. Then you said, "Okay, for the what
are we going to have for the building?"
My dream or my vision was we should have
a a an instructor whatever you named or
called her. that person should handle
all the um okay like uh
exercise programs um I think have
haircut programs um quilting programs
all the programs that you have trips
that you have you're going to take
people on that I visualize as being a
person and then because I know the town
wants part-time employment that's why I
see three people if you're doing
full-time perhaps you can do the lastly
and most important actually is an
administrator you have to have an
administrator handle everything that
person when I say everything would take
care of getting grants for the building
um right now I I see from using
transportation which I desperately need
now um I see that we really need to
replace our van. And I and this is a
2014. I see also we need to replace our
or add to our bus because the bus is a
2017. It's time to update. Um we right
now have the opportunity to get more
grants for those two positions, for
those two vehicles. And I see your third
person as being your administrative
person who will be getting your grants
for you who will be uh supervising let's
say supervising the building supervising
I I guess is a good name but an
administrator who would handle those
physicians those projects make sure that
everything that other the other people
are doing their job there has to be a
person like that there has to be someone
in charge
And and that's the way I see it. And I'm
not saying names. I'm just saying
people. I did say Linda because she's
doing a great job right now. And I think
Haley's doing a super job. I think that
Tessa is doing a good job. Um but I
think that to say to any one person now,
I want you to do all those jobs, but I
want you to take part-time job uh pay.
That's so unrealistic. I can't even tell
you.
>> So that's that's my thought.
>> Okay.
>> My vision.
delay.
>> Um, yeah. I
>> like to get off.
>> No.
Um, as chairman of the commission on
aging, as you know, I am all for
everything that we do here and
everything we can do and look forward to
the future that things bigger, better,
more community stuff because that's, you
know, we concentrated on the seniors and
now we're concentrating on the senior
and community and then some of just
community um we need to add to this
whole mix. But I, you know, certainly,
you know, you have a good amount of
staffing right now.
Um, and I would hope that you would have
a full-time, a part-time, and a
part-time.
>> Thanks.
>> All right. Thank you. Did I miss
anybody?
>> Okay. Um, so
item three is discussion and act on
personal staffing levels in the
community center. That's really not the
truth of a discussion just so you
understand. The discussion is really
more um and and I'm speaking to Tess and
Haley mostly how how we understand your
roles, how we understand the programs
you're doing, how we start to as a board
interact more with you and then uh
obviously everyone is telling us about
the financial issue. We all are aware of
the financial issue. It's something that
that we as a board have to address as to
how we handle that moving forward. Um,
but this is more of an interactive
meeting as to what you guys are up to,
how you're breaking up your roles
because, you know, and I'll tell you
from my perspective as being here is
it's a new building.
>> I mean, Eric, when did you open it up?
About a year ago.
>> August of last year.
>> August. We're on month 14 now, right?
>> Correct.
Um,
you know, I'll go back to Kathy. You
know, at the present, you got to open
the box and you got to see what's inside
the box. Well, you have to open a new
building with no infrastructure, with no
standard operating procedures, with very
limited amounts of information as to
what programs should be run, shouldn't
be run. You've got to have patience. All
right? So, first thing is patience. But
we as a group, as a board need to
understand what's going on, how the two
of you are interacting, and then we've
got to come to an understanding as a
board as to how to fund this because I
will tell all of you and Kathle,
it's not easy. It's there's certain
things that have to be evaluated. We
have to sit there and and identify where
we can get resources to support this in
that this manner. And this is where I
would tell you guys and in front of a
public audience, we need to find ways to
generate
additional funding, whether they're
grants or whether they're programs that
that that the community is willing to
pay for. And that those are things that
we as a group all need to do. And then I
will tell you all on one thing. This
other thing we will never have enough
money as a community in my head to put
the total number of people that I would
like to see in this building as
employees. So we all need to volunteer.
So what Kathy did all those years is
what we all have to do. Now we just have
a place to do it. So before Kathy was
doing all this volunteer work in my mind
and she was doing it at the old town
hall. She was doing it in the community
room. This is a much better building,
which much better. I mean, I love your
artwork on the wall. I I think that's
great. I mean, you know, but I got to
sit there because this group needs to
ask questions, needs to understand what
you're doing and get in there. But
please, it's interactive and and I know
uh there's a level of stress that I
really don't want here.
>> I mean, please, please, no stress. I
mean, come on. This is something that we
as a group have to try to get past and
and uh
I'll let you guys talk.
>> Can I just say one thing before they
start?
>> No.
>> Come on. Go ahead.
I hope that they're able to let you know
what they do within the time they're
here, not so much within the aotted
hours because that will help you
formulate a picture of what you need
because you have a certain amount of
things you want done and if it's
reasonable to have that done.
>> That's the last outburst I'll
teasing.
You ready?
>> Yeah. So, I'm going to hand you guys um
just something that we sort of put
together some ideas
if you want to see that.
>> I feel better when I stand.
>> You can stand more confident.
>> Nah, I'm good here. roll your board over
here.
Get it closer to the camera and you're
good.
>> No, I'm good. So, I just want to thank
the public because um without you, we
wouldn't be here and I appreciate your
support not only from day one um but for
the length of time that I was gone and
um and just as a warm welcome when I
came back. Um, I truly love it here and
I've made some really um, deep
conversation or deep relationships and
I'm very thankful for each one that came
out today. Um, board of selectmen, you
will see that first page. When I started
here, um, I was asked for a vision and
that vision hasn't changed. Um, our
passion is to be a community that
connects, grows, and serves together
regardless of age by fostering
opportunities. number one to stay active
and then there's sort of uh the mission
of that vision of how we get there.
Number two is prioritize mental health
and well-being. Nourish the body through
diet, cultivate social connections, and
embrace lifetime learning. And so this
was in the first newsletter that was
produced back in December.
And and that hasn't changed. Have we got
there fully 100%? No. But I think that
we are well on our way to get there. And
I think that um I heard Julia and a
couple people say that we are a work in
progress and that we're growing. And so
for that I'm thankful. I don't think
that we should ever stop. It's a
lifetime of learning and I think that
this position um needs to reflect that
as well. On that second page, you will
see um senior director. Um and I I just
want to go back a little bit before get
into the roles and responsibilities. Um
when I came here, the first person that
we um connected with or I connected with
to do a program here was Haley and that
was in part by Kathy Palazi and so that
was chair yoga and from there um Haley
has uh in is the instructor of four
classes here. So, um, one, she is vital
to this building and two, um, vital to
the community in offering those things.
Um,
so,
as you can see, I'm well, as you know,
I'm um contracted for 26 hours a week. I
don't think I've ever worked 26 hours. I
think that is part of who I am is I I
volunteer a lot and um that has always
been who I am. The heart of who I am is
to volunteer and so coming here uh
wanting to do a great job, wanting to um
do the job to the best of my ability. Um
I am I I would want to invest and and I
felt like I was being invested in in the
beginning as well. So um I had support
from the town administrator and
um and the seniors as well. So going
through here um realistically 26 to 32
hours per week. Um
going down for the overview provides
leadership coordination across senior
programs, community partnerships and
daily operations. I don't know how much
you want me to read this. No, you don't
need your
>> listen just talk from your heart. Once
it's off, come back.
>> Um, so on these the key responsibilities
there is in parentheses about how many
hours it does take to do that per week.
Um, the on the third page you'll find
community director and approximately how
many hours that would take to be that
person as well. What those key
responsibilities are. There is a lot of
overlap in during this last month. It
has been a challenge to see what has
been done in the time that I was gone.
Um, how can we grow together and what
does that look like between us? I'm very
thankful that Haley and I had a
relationship that was out of respect and
transparency and that has continued
since day one since I've been back. So,
I'm very thankful for that. um and very
supportive of each other. And so almost
to the point where she could probably
finish my sentences. Um and so just the
overview of who uh of of what that
community director might look like and
some of the responsibilities as well. Um
so this is the job description on page
four of that senior director and the
community director job description. I'm
not sure if that was in that same order.
Um there are some things on that last
page that we would like to see happen
and some things that would make our life
a little bit easier to uh uh relieve
ourselves a lot from
time uh that we're taking to to complete
some of those jobs. One of those is that
newsletter. So, um, we had a lot of
feedback the last meeting that was here,
uh, regarding the newsletter, and so we
have made changes to that newsletter.
You all have that now. I'm hoping it's a
little bit easier to read. Um, and
you'll find that there's a lot more
things in there, not only uh, for
September uh, for October, but for
November as well. So, we are booked in
November. There's a lot going on. um
that first thing that newsletter that
we'd like to see happen. Um I'd like to
see a deeper um a monthly meeting with
the chairman
to communicate so that you all know
exactly what's happening here. Um I've
seen some of you and I'm very thankful
>> uh excuse me a monthly meeting with
either somebody from the board that we
can communicate on a better um
communicate better. Please don't call me
a chairman.
>> Sorry.
>> I mean I feel older than you already
>> chairman.
>> Um I think what would really help us is
to have a software system. I know that
we have um we have requested that but we
are um we are requesting that again. Um
a color printer. I don't know if you all
know but for us to make copies we can do
black and white here but for anything
that is in color uh we have to go next
door. So those newsletters, we are
printing those next door, which is
helpful, but on a daily day-to-day
basis, even on today, we have to run
next door uh get the key, go downstairs
and um and do that. So just out of
convenience. Um
>> what kind of printer is that? Is it a is
it just a desktop? Is it
>> No, that's a window. You know, we have
we have service contracts on two large
printers because our cost per sheet is
so much lower than individual printers.
>> Yeah.
>> So, there's one upstairs and there's one
downstairs. The one upstairs in the
tunnel where it's just black and white.
>> Black and white. Correct.
>> So, the one single color printer
>> is down in the building department.
>> Correct.
>> So, a small color printer. Um Haley and
I were actually talking this morning
about a tax credit for volunteers that
is getting implemented in a senior
center that we're aware of and we would
like to try to see um how that could
impact our volunteers.
Um the sixth one is we do work
collaboratively with a lot of different
departments in town. um park and park
and I keep saying park and wreck because
park and wreck is from my town so I
apologize. So from the wreck commission
and I think that there's a lot of
overlap there and it could be a lot more
um but so we're asking for an exeicio
member um
one of us to be that member on the rec
commission for purpose of collaboration.
Um and then this the seventh thing was
um more information about Silver
Sneakers and um Renew Active. And so
those are things that we can provide to
the community and how do we get that
working. So um I think overall I'm very
thankful to be back uh looking forward
to what the future has for us. I think
there's been a lot of unstability
um in instability unstability um not
stable things have not been stable not
only for the community but I think for
the seniors as well and so what I would
like to see is uh a settling happening
um something that they can count on are
is there going to be classes for them is
there going to be uh lunchons for them
and and I would like to be a part of
that going forward is there anything you
want to Okay. Um,
my name is Haley Cotto and I've been
serving as the interim director um while
Tess was away and I have really enjoyed
working within this beautiful building,
working with you all, working with the
public. Um, uh, since Tess has been
back, we've really been able to up our
ability to work even more within the
community, starting the homework club
and chess and checkers club. And it's
been um, fabulous to get to know the
parents on a greater level. You think I
should already know them because my kids
are in the elementary school, but my
previous job did have me commuting to
New Haven daily. So, um it has really
helped me get to know people in the
community and I do love working here. Um
and Tess and I got along fabulously
before um her departure and so coming
back and we just kind of fell into the
swing of it. Um it is a challenging
circumstance but I think that you know
it almost made us uh grow closer more
quickly just because of the ch we were
both with the understanding of how
challenging the circumstance was. Um we
work well together. We have our own
strong suits that pair nicely. And um I
think that
the goal of this building, similar to
the inability to unwrap a gift that's
sitting in front of you, um that with
the two of us here, I think we have the
potential to really continue to grow
something, right? And that's what we
want to see. We want to see more pro
programs. We want to see the potential
for revenue growth. Um, and I think
that's something we can really hone in
on if we have a little bit more manpower
than just the one director at 26 um to
make these things happen.
>> Okay. Anything else?
>> Yeah, I do one more thing. Um, I do want
to say we have added art classes in the
evenings. So that starts in November. Um
we do have the art gallery. This will be
an art gallery once a month and that
artists can come share and display their
items. Um we will have an open house for
them. Um and and they get to display
their items all month. This particular
artist is Kim D. Roger and she is going
to be um our art teacher, our art
instructor. And so she'll not only teach
the community but she will teach the
seniors during the day. So and While
that is not going to like this is a good
example while that is particular thing
is not going to be necessarily a huge
revenue generator for the center. the
ability to run the um community version
of the adult class is going to fund the
ability to have this same art teacher
come in and work with the seniors for a
very discounted what is it the $8,
right? The seniors come and take these
art classes for $8, right? So, we're
able to collaborate together, bringing
this art class to the community and
using that ability to then offer more
senior programming at um a very
discounted rate.
>> So, like a class like that, how many
seniors take that? Would I mean I know
you're starting in November, but what do
you think the the number of seniors that
would take that class?
>> Well, the does she have a 12 person cap?
So it's a 12 person cap of who how she
can teach within a space like what's um
acceptable. However, um the goal would
be that if instead of having her once a
month, you know, could we grow that
popularity to have her in on a weekly
basis, you know, could we have more
offerings per week? you know, she this
is the art teacher we have coming in is
a mixed media artist, which means she
can do oil painting, she can do
watercolor, she can do collage, right?
So, there's this opportunity for people
to study uh different mediums with her
>> and and this just goes because I'm
businessoriented.
>> Yeah.
>> Um is there any part of that $8 that
goes to fund your budget or is it all
going to the art teacher?
Ideally, the
revenue coming in from the adult version
of the class is funding the senior art
class. And so the $8 would be moving
into our budget.
>> Okay. So, are you paying?
>> Are you paying the art teacher? Okay.
So, that's what I'm saying. So, how much
do you think you're paying the art
teacher? Is it is the art teacher $6 and
it's $2 for the That's all I'm after.
It's just a number.
>> It's just like how because I look at
your your free classes and I understand
that's all part of the budget just like
that. He's telling us we got to increase
the budget to unwrap the present. But
you have these other programs. Um you
know, chair massage $32. My favorite
person, Linda Derek.
How much of that is Linda and how much
of that is and and those are not things
I need to put out now but you guys need
to think about
>> because
you need to realize that we need to uh
we as a group as a as a as a team as a
town we need to generate some funding
out of the building to assist to pay for
all the additional hours and the other
items that you're talking about. So
those things to me just go what can we
do and where are we at?
>> So I don't need an answer today. I don't
need a I'm not going to pin down because
I'd sit there in my head go you might
only fill six seats. You might not have
any seniors that want to do art for $8
box. I don't know that. We don't know
that just yet. But we all we all have
things to work.
>> And if we can fill that uh community
center art class um we can decrease that
price to our seniors or and have it
free. So, correct.
>> Um, so money in the budget or provide
something for free.
>> And what other new programs do you think
that you are on the horizon?
>> I'll I'll speak if I can speak first.
Um, I am really excited to have um such
a great connection with the elementary
school. And what we started last year
was a PAL program where the seniors
would come and um meet uh people across
lifetimes. And so the there was a a book
that Tammy Garheart wrote and it was all
about community getting together even
though we have differences. How are we
alike and how can we um make connections
that way? So we introduced the PAL
program and those were activities that
seniors could do with their little
buddy. They were in kindergarten. this
year is going to continue and hopefully
it will continue to grow every year. Not
only introducing a whole new set of
kindergarten kindergarteners but also
the ones that can keep their buddy from
last year. Um so that's continuing. Um I
was introduced to another author, local
author and he has written a book called
Travel in um Travel in Time in
Connecticut. And so what we are going to
do with the sixth grade class, we've
already met in a sixth grade class and
some of the seniors will be getting
together and going on local field trips
and talk about the history of Andover.
In the end, we will be writing a book
and so producing our own book and so the
kids will bring in um their research.
The seniors will have interviews with
the students and artwork as well. So
whether the seniors and the students
have artwork or whatever else they
however this goes, it's very fluid at
this point. Um but um but that's
something that we're really excited
about. We do have connection also with
Cheni Tech and hopefully Windham Tech as
well in the culinary arts having them
come in maybe teach a class to either
the students or the community and sort
of grow on those relationships that we
already have. So I'm excited about that.
That's what makes me that's what makes
me excited. And and seeing the the
feedback from the seniors. Uh it's it's
been quite positive and the excitement
from the kids. The kids want to be here.
This is a club. They don't have to be.
They can they can be doing anything
else, but coming here and spending time
with seniors is is is something that we
um we love.
>> Any of the seniors participate in that
program?
>> The pal.
Not that I know, but there have I mean I
I do not.
>> Bye.
>> Bye. Enjoy the ride.
>> Thank you.
>> I love your shirt.
>> Yes,
>> Julia. Julia and um Kina from looking
around. Um Kathy was was there as well.
So last year I think maybe came in a
couple.
>> I was also involved in it the first
time.
>> Yeah. a little chaotic that first time
when 21 of those kids came in. It was uh
>> just information.
>> I was um
>> at the meeting where this the sixth
graders came before the trap.
>> Yeah.
>> And I was so impressed
>> with
the enthusiasm
>> to write a book.
>> Yeah. And I mentioned a few things that
I had learned from people in town as
I've lived here. I've been on the
bounds. I've heard from stories from our
historian
and I mentioned a few things to them
about when we bought an old house in
town, how we determined it was sound
because the builders came and stuck the
pen on all the beams in the cellar and
they didn't go in very far. So that
meant they were sound ter. Yeah, no
termites. But they were so interested in
so many
of the visible things I have heard
about.
>> I didn't realize I was going to be so
impressed with this group of sixth
graders who are to write a book about
history in Andover. And
>> well, they have a project on handover
every year and it's the same information
Kathy, I'm sure can tell there's only
three books in the library.
>> So, if they can write a better book,
then guess what? We don't have to do the
project doesn't have to be very good at
it.
>> It might be bored, Jerry.
>> And it was great too, if I could also
add, it was great, too, to have one of
our seniors who is 100 years old and for
these students to
just their shock and awe I think of just
having somebody's
older
and and so alive and exciting to be here
with them, too. It's it's a it's a
mutual relationship and just a sweet
bond that's happening. I I just love to
see it.
>> Are are you two keeping track of the
amount of people that come in and out of
here?
since we we we did uh prior uh
>> prior prior to her leaving
>> it was something that was being tracked.
I did not
>> there was not enough time to collect
scraps of paper respectfully and and
count the names. Um it is time for a
computer system.
respectful.
>> Okay, we know that.
>> I know. I know. I just
>> So when I look at the
>> the hours and then the job description.
So just so we're
the two of you split this out according
to what your vision is as to the
different positions, right? So, you're
telling us 28 to 32 hours and 28 to 30
hours and then the job description
offsets those.
All right.
>> Yeah,
you're happy I came, aren't you?
>> I just want,
>> you know, I have to tell you, this is a
totally different meeting than I ever
run. I don't let us hear people talk big
audience and and you know you know Julia
took so much time.
>> She's very good at that. It was eight
minutes.
>> I don't I don't have any idea.
>> Go ahead. Yeah,
>> I just want to make sure it's not
overlooked that when um Tess told you
her job things and that she's uh
allotted 26 hours and uh Haley, she's
allotted 19, right? When November 15th
comes, unless there's some funding
there, you're losing 19 hours of work.
>> That's why we're here.
>> Okay. I just want
>> we're trying to be here and get get an
explanation of what and I'm really glad
Liz is here from the board of finance
because
>> at the tribe board meeting that was what
was expressed we have two issues
financially within the community from
what I am one is the town
administrator's position and the other
is the senior center community center so
we have to figure it out and so we
either have to find money from other
places or we have to sit there and
dedicate more of our budget to right
>> where we're going. So, um please
understand that this board is really not
here to sit there and and we may we're
under budget constraints.
>> We may not be able to do everything they
want, but we have to sit there and get
an understanding of what it is
>> and then get a feel for the community. I
mean, one of my things that I would come
back and tell you guys, you need to do
quarterly surveys
>> because you cannot allow, and I'll say
this as nicely as I possibly can, the
crankiest person to get to other members
on this board and just tell them what
they want. You have to have data from
the rest of the community to understand
how this center is performing across a
larger group of people
>> because it is really the truth. If the
squeaky wheel gets the grease
>> and if somebody is in someone's ear,
>> that's who they're hearing,
>> right?
>> And you can't allow that,
>> right? We can't allow that.
>> All right. So, I need a survey on a
quarterly basis as to what you as the
users of the of this facility think
because
>> I'm not here, Barry. I don't I don't
consider myself a senior. I have white
hair like Diane, but I do not consider
myself a senior. And and and I do work
full-time, so I I still work.
>> So, you have to tell me. I have to see
the data or the person that is claiming
is going to get this.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Go ahead.
>> I wholeheartedly agree and would love to
be able for us to provide that. Um, and
this is just another little can we
please get a program because here is
feedback, but I have no real way to
present it to you all in a
>> please get with the school
>> and ask the school and the technology
person to develop you a a Google survey
sheet. Get a a
get a um an iPad or some type of I mean
you guys are getting good at technology,
aren't you?
>> Seniors, I'm looking at you being
better. I mean, if we got them a tablet
and we asked them to take the survey on
a tablet before we sit there and even
get to the whole issue of soft,
>> that's a different issue. We got to find
that money. We got to figure out how to
do it
>> and we'll work toward it. But
>> okay,
>> you can do these things. You just have
to be creative how you do it. And if you
have a good relationship with the
school, they have the technology. They
send these things home to parents.
Ask Mrs. Frasier or ask Valerie to ask
Mrs. Frasier. She'll she'll work with
you and maybe make it a sixth grade
project because kids can do anything,
right? and develop a survey that you
hand the seniors a tablet and say, "Hey,
please take this survey and let us know
how we're doing." And then you can give
the data to the board and then we can
go, "Okay, there is positive feedback
coming for the community." And you have
to be honest. If you're not honest,
we'll never get better. So, the seniors
have to be honest, right? and give us
the data because then I can look at it
and say okay
the the users of the facility are happy
with the direction the facility is going
and then how do we expand it more and
they will also tell us the things that
they don't feel are being done properly
>> and we can allocate what we need to but
you have to do that as a bare minimum
because
uh small towns work in strange ways And
whoever is talking is the one that sits
there and and gets information and then
maybe not everything gets translated
correctly or is in everyone's interest
and that's what we asked.
>> How much is the tablet?
>> Oh, you can use any tablet, but we could
get you a tablet for $100.
>> Eric, before he leaves can figure that
out.
>> Great.
there.
>> Diane,
>> thank thank you for um patience is not
one of my strong suits and I've been
waiting very patiently and
>> well what I say that's missing here is a
major part of what they're doing and
that's the senior transportation
>> only nobody's talked about it. I know.
>> Well, I can't because she's working over
here and early voting,
>> right? But it's see you've got the
administrator, you got the program, and
then there's the senior transportation,
which
>> we'll talk about.
>> Okay. Like I said,
>> thank you for bringing that up.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Do you have any resources to help
seniors senior center get more grants?
Well, that's something that we need to
sit there and look at the administrator
and we need to work as to how we're
going at this. But that is something
that we really have to do a better job
of.
>> I can speak to a little bit about that.
Kathy, you brought up a good point in
having one of our transportation fleet
uh one of our vehicles that was very old
and it's time to retire that vehicle. Uh
in April, I did apply for a grant and uh
we have yet to hear about that. So that
would be replacing that van. And so
>> replacing the van.
>> Replacing the van.
>> And now it's time to put in for another
vehicle for for the bus.
>> Correct. Yep. Yep. So So um so yes,
thank you.
>> I just came through yesterday.
>> Yep. So we are that is
>> you're still getting emails.
>> I know the people down here.
>> So it is it is time consuming and that
is something that um it was a lot for me
to do. Um, I was also doing uh
everything here and transportation and I
wrote that grant. I was exhausted and
and thankfully Haley does have a little
bit more experience in that. And so
that's again one of those ways where uh
we work well together. So um so I'm
thankful it takes it takes time. It
takes time to do to do it. So um yeah
>> well that is in the works. Is there more
than one place to apply for grants for
the vehicles? So, you're applying for
multiple places then or or what?
>> Um, that's a great question, Ann. And
for myself, I I know that there's lots
of grants that we could apply for and
getting creative and how we can use
that. Um, we are in the midst of
actually applying for a grant and each
town in the state of Connecticut
receives a $10,15
grant um just for applying and it is
used towards transportation. So that
could be maintenance. It could be $1,000
of that $10,000 will go to
administration. Um there are things that
you can be created in there. Could it
help with the software system?
Absolutely. We just have to be creative
enough to um to make those that work. So
yes, there are different grants that you
can apply for for vehicles. That's
that's going to take some research. So
yes,
>> I guess on a whole, yes,
>> I only know one real transportation that
you can fund vehicles.
>> Um, and if you look out there, three of
the four vehicles that we were funded
from that grant over the years,
>> um, rarely does we get that the first
time. So, I'm assuming that we're going
to resubmit that grant for another uh,
van. Um because in all likelihood we
haven't been told yet because they don't
announce them even though we applied,
you know, last March,
you know, it's there's often a year lag
time before we even found out when we
got the last grant. So the goal would be
to be ready to go to resubmit that grant
again for a van.
Just as a quick a quick thing that I
would like you to do. Can you tell us
all what grant funding is coming into
this building potentially within the
next 12 months?
We have the legislative money. We have
different funding sources. I'm not
talking about running. I'm talking about
finishing off parts. So, if you're
talking about building specific stuff,
there is a federal request through the
US Senate uh for money that would be
used to finish the basement of this
building, as well as put in the
generator backup, which would cover this
building, the town hall, and the fire
station to replace the 35year-old
generator there with a propane
generator. um
that is
right around $300,000. I don't I don't
have the exact figure off the top of my
head. Um if we get that, we would
supplement that with the next
legislative appropriation, which we will
have available sometime around July 1 of
next year. Won't actually be July 1.
It'll be sometime later in July when
they announce it. um which would be
another $250,000.
Between those two, there should be
enough money to complete that project
completely as long as somebody decides
what we're actually doing with the
basement. Um you know, we put it before
the board a number of times what the
goals are for the basement, but without
knowing what we're building to, it's
hard to to understand like what level
we're building the basement to, what
we're trying to do with it. So those
determinations would have to be be done.
That should be able to be done without
any real town tax dollars.
If we get both of those, if we don't get
both of those, then somebody's going to
have to make a hard-nosed decision about
whether the priority is the generator or
whether the priority is finishing off
the basement of this building.
Personally, I think the priority is the
generator. Um because this building has
zero backup.
>> The generator in the kitchen.
>> Absolutely.
>> I mean that's Yep. I mean if you went
step one, step two, right? It would be
the generator and the kitchen
>> and then the basement when we
>> decide what we need to. So if you don't
get the Senate money, we would use the
Connecticut funding for
>> we should either one.
>> Right.
>> Right. Remember, there is also there's
sitting out there about $150,000
in the multi-use building fund that's
earmarked for finishing this off because
we didn't know we were getting
legislative grant anyway.
>> So, you there is there are some fairly
big pools of money you can tap if that
if and when that funding comes through.
It just, you know, you got to
see it through,
>> right? So that's just a little
background information for everybody so
we all understand what we could
potentially do or not do.
>> So now now we got to come back to your
issues. And um
>> I guess I guess I would ask like I look
through your job description and I look
through this and uh
>> let's talk about the the senior
transformation coordination. Um, so none
of that is currently on your on any of
your job descriptions right now and you
have oversight capacity, but how is that
being handled currently, so we're all
aware. And how do you think it's
working?
>> I did have a paper. I'm sorry I didn't
get in your packet, but yeah, we did
have that as well. Um, before I left, I
was doing the senior transportation. Um,
it seemed to be working well. We didn't
forget too many people on a regular
basis. Yes, there are mistakes and and
we have forgotten a few and I uh still
apologize Kina that we did forget you.
Um but uh as it goes it was easy under
one one roof. Um now that Linda has that
she is working at least 10 hours a week
and she oversees that. We do
communicate. it would be easier if we
were able to communicate and share um a
document, share a calendar that's live
and so we are working on that. So, so um
that's something that we're working on
so that when we schedule a trip or a
program, she'll be she will already know
that that is on her calendar as well and
she can do the transportation part. Um
so, so before it was easier on one
communication been a little bit
challenging, but I think going over to a
new software will definitely help that,
but um using the same live calendar is
going to help alleviate a lot of those
problems.
>> Um until we can get the software work
with the school again on that, that's
another technology project that would be
good for them.
>> Um but
>> how is senior transportation going right
now?
>> Any issues?
>> I don't think it's going right now.
>> Any issues with senior transportation?
>> I use the law and the guns and um
several other people were on the route
>> and it works very well. I've never had
somebody booked to take me to a doctor's
appointment not show up. I've never had
that.
>> I find it tremendous for doctor's
appointments in um Glastonbury and
occasionally at Farmington Medical
Center.
>> Yeah.
>> A lot of seniors here attending there.
so they can get here. Otherwise, they
would never be able to do it.
>> But those that just don't ever drive
um can't even get here unless they have
those vans,
>> right?
>> Even though they may just live a half a
mile away, you can't walk a half a mile
on a narrow lake road around the lake to
get here. It's not safe.
>> Yeah.
>> And she has to do a great job. All great
feedback has been coming back. Um,
I think it was a really good move to
take it out of
your the job of the persons in charge
here and have somebody separate like
Linda do it.
>> Yeah.
>> Really? Um because
>> that's it's confusing. It has the
potential
for a lot of mistakes if you're doing
six other jobs at the same time and the
phone's ringing and you're trying to
print a program. So the people that are
coming to the building here know what's
coming up doing these um
billboards, I mean display boards and
putting out this.
>> I mean,
>> so Linda hasn't made any mistakes.
>> Not for me. And I've used it quite a bit
because I haven't driven since I got
back from having a serious tick bite
starting in July.
>> Okay.
>> Weeks and weeks of not excuse me
interrupting. Um I would like to see
added to the transportation. Um it's
part of the rules that we originally uh
have set for the dean of transportation
that uh if there's a vote like we're
having voting now um voting on November
4th. Um, and if there's any meetings
that evening, board of selectment that
should be in public or board of finance
or whatever,
the bus is available supposed to be
available to take the seniors if they
need to go even if it's only one or two
seniors. Uh, that has not been happening
and I'd like to see that added. I know
that you did know about a Tesla
and we did we have provided
transportation to boating last year. We
did do that.
>> You did do the voting.
that last year. So, so thank you for
bringing that up.
>> Yes, I want to see that. But I do like
the idea if you have
>> I do like the idea if there is some sort
of a PC interchange where Tess Haley and
Linda could see the trips like you're
talking about or any thing coming up a
vote or or a meeting that means there's
available availability if they want to
go.
>> Correct. Does anyone want to come to our
meetings? Really?
>> I know you love coming to our meetings.
>> But you like sitting in your kitchen
with with mine.
>> I'd love to see it done. But hey,
>> understood. I mean, this this is more an
understanding of
I mean,
let's just talk for me numbers. So you
got an admin
let's say 26 hours and and let's see is
that currently 26 hours Frank test your
number
>> for me currently.
>> All right and then we got we got
>> we'll just call it Haley because
>> what was your title? What's what are we
calling it? my my I was the interim
senior director.
>> However, I've really been leaning into,
you know, since she's been back, I've
just been trying to utilize my time in a
way that helps us grow. So, leaning into
the community aspect.
>> Okay. And currently, right now, you're
19 hours,
>> correct?
>> All right. And Linda is 10.
>> That is correct.
budgeted,
we had 26.
>> Just so you know, and I'm talking to the
board of finance.
>> Yep. Where
>> we had 26. So, if we choose to move
forward with this, we have a financial
issue that we're going to have to
address.
>> Okay.
>> Are we taking a vote on this right now?
>> No, we're just talking. We're just
talking. I mean because what we have to
do from the board perspective is we all
have to come back and you know at our
next meeting really because Jeff's not
here we really do need to talk about how
we're going to proceed
and and I believe Eric when we when we
extended Haley's contract we extended it
till after the election to the 15th.
Correct.
>> Correct.
>> Okay.
So, we have to decide at our next
meeting exactly. We have to give you
enough time, Haley. This is not It will
not be We're going to sit there and deal
with this.
>> If you're not making the decision today,
you do understand she's actively seeking
other employment because she does not
want to take the risk of being
unemployed.
>> Understood.
>> So, if you're not going to do it,
understand that that option may not be
available to you in a week's time. Okay.
All right.
Um,
what other questions does everybody else
have?
>> I just had one. You said that another
senior center is looking for tax credits
for volunteers. Which senior center,
please?
>> Um, yeah, it was a senior center in
Massachusetts, Newbury, Mass.
>> Okay. So, their laws would be different
than ours.
>> Correct. So that would be
>> because we had there's a state statute
that empowers us to create an ordinance
for our fire department
>> y
>> abatement. So I'm not sure that we have
something like that but new mask
>> um I'll call them
>> you can you can call we we are already
in research and we are in communication
with them as well.
That would be great.
>> And the only other thing, Exeicio, you
are both more than welcome to attend any
recreation commission meeting. And as
>> Haley can attest,
>> we're very interactive. We don't quiet
people like Jeff wants. We want to speak
outside of public speaking. We welcome
>> I've mentioned
>> your ideas and we love to hear them. So
we more than welcome both of you. anyone
else who would like to come direct when
she meets second Tuesday of every month.
>> Awesome.
>> We meet in person.
>> Yes, the meetings in person are very
nice. I've been going to the meetings
and enjoying it. Um, everybody on the
commission is fabulous and I just think
that
us working together more helps to grow
it. You know, there's going to be times,
especially once you get into the winter
seasons, where the rec commission is
going to need access to space like this,
and I want the, you know, to make sure
they're high on the priority list of
getting what they need.
>> And so, me being there, I've been trying
to go to all the meetings I could.
>> And there Saturday, we're having our
Halloween funday where we give out
candy. and the community and senior
center is running
quite a few other little things for the
kids. So, we're hoping that you're
joining with us.
>> Absolutely.
>> Encourage more people to attend. I I
believe that. So, thank you for that.
>> Jeeoff, can I just share one more thing
and and then I I think then I'm done. um
getting senior center in director and
director.
I I don't think that, you know, we have
it all figured out yet. I think it's
something fluid and and that we're
growing into and and speaking with um
setting up a a meeting with area
directors, senior center directors this
past week has been very informative and
you were there and I appreciate that.
Thank you. I I don't think that we um
We need that. We need to hear from our
peers. We need to know how things are
going in other places so that we can
make adjustments as well. I think that's
important that we have communication
with you so that we know what's going on
or you know what's going on so that you
can provide feedback and impact too. So,
so after that meeting um and and
whenever you want to I can share or we
can do that at another time. Um three
other senior centers came and it was
very informative. It was interesting to
see how how far we actually are compared
to people that have been there in their
positions for 19 years and some 12 19
years and so so that was good. Um I I I
left there and I was very encouraged. I
think you were too. Um Eric was there
pretty much the whole time.
>> So um so it was it was a good thing. So
know that we aren't just coming up uh
with we don't have it's not wisdom in
our own eyes is that we're actually
going out there and seeking wisdom from
other people as well.
to you.
>> Well, I think it's a great thing for you
to do because we are 25 years behind the
time
>> of when these other senior centers
started. And if they're willing to meet
with you and tell you what those growing
pains were 20 years ago, that can only
be helpful. Yeah, they have a lot of
things worked out that you might be
pondering about and they could tell you
how they solve it.
>> It's almost should be required.
>> Yes.
>> That you see them uh maybe twice a
month. Get to know them. How can you
would you be two of my hours though,
Julia?
>> Yeah, that's what happens.
That's what I wanted to know too is what
are we not going to be able to do if
they don't have like what do you do
after your 26 hours that you're giving
them?
>> That's a great that's a great question
right now.
>> I don't know if they'll let me talk
again
so much.
>> I'm leaving for me.
>> Well, the one thing that I think I I
would like to know is if I had any input
in this is if they're you know we have
to move forward budgets of concern but
when you look at what they're able to do
within their 19 and 26 hours and 10
hours what will they have been doing
that they cannot continue to do
>> right so there's evening programs and
then so some of their hours go to that
are we going to still be able to do that
I mean those are things that would
interest me as a president that takes
advantage of it.
>> Well, there's no good employee. There's
no good person. If you've ever had work
for you or that you've done a job where
you haven't put in extra time,
>> right?
>> I understand that's that's a personal
that's a personal choice. It's like Eric
Anderson, he's not a 40hour a week
employee. Yeah,
>> we knew that. I knew that.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't work 40 hours a week. I mean,
it's just if if I'm hiring someone for
her position and it's a 19 hour or 26
hour position and she doesn't put in
some extra time, she's not going to be
here.
>> I mean, I'm just saying that. I know
it's a negative, but I'm just telling
you, Eric looks at it that way. And I'm
just saying I know I it's just how it
is. It's and and I don't mean it that
I'm going to to to push that person out.
They're going to push themselves. Well,
I think also, you know, you as a person,
I'll speak for myself, if I'm
supposed to be putting in 10 hours, but
what I'm trying to accomplish will take
and
I put that 30 in. How do I feel about
myself after 10 15 years of doing that
and not
>> getting
>> being compensate? That is not
compensating. That is not
healthy. Not healthy. And any
organization has to sit there any good
organization
>> should sit there and evaluate the people
that are putting in the extra time and
reward them for that. That's just how it
should work.
But in historically in this town it has
not worked.
>> Historically in this town it has not
worked because we are financially
constrained.
>> Yes.
>> And and I have told Tess this that I
believe her role and she didn't put it
on any of the information is a volunteer
coordinator because if we don't have
volunteers, if you don't volunteer, if I
don't volunteer, if our neighbors don't
volunteer, right? If we don't, then the
amount of programs within this building
are going to be limited because we don't
have the financial capacity to
>> You're saying that she's a vol the
coordinator of the volunteer
>> of you, of me, of everybody else. I want
to come in and do a card night. Okay.
Jeff McGuire wants to come in and do a
card night. Jeff Magcguire is going to
run that program, right?
>> I'm not going to get compensated for it
unless I win some money.
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
>> Well,
>> well, I'll probably lose. That's okay.
But, you know, that's that's what you
have to do.
>> So, I I think too, if I could just speak
to that a little bit, I think with any
position that you do take is there's a
level of investment and and there's
heart behind it and you want to go in
with passion and heart and serve the
community, whatever job it is. And so I
think that when you are um appreciated
and valued for your investment and
there's a good working relationship and
communication
that really does solve a lot of it and
when there's communication and there's
needs then we can work together at the
table and say hey I need this and it's a
mutual there's there's a mutual
benefit. Thank you. And I don't want you
to misunderstand me. I love working at
the library and I love going in and
subbing, you know, whenever. I enjoyed
it. It's just came time to retire, you
know. They were wonderful to me.
>> So, you and
>> Oh, yes.
>> So, that's what Tess would stay there
for 30 hours a week, you know. No, I
didn't. If I didn't care.
>> Okay.
>> Can I Can I ask Jeff?
>> Oh, can I just ask Jeff? Oh, I No,
seriously. I would like to ask you a
question.
>> Seriously, when we were planning the
building,
>> did you as being our firstman, did you
not think that we were going to be
spending money and it was not imaginary
money. We had to have money.
>> We asked We asked for $20,000 more than
the board of financing.
So, so we understood that we had a level
of investment that was required and
it was not even enough. Even what we
asked for wasn't enough,
>> right?
>> But we were cut down to X, right? So,
and it's not a negative on the board of
finance. The board of finance has a a
very difficult job that the board of
finance has to take what available tax
dollars we have and identify where they
can be put out. And so what the board of
finance did at the time and said it's a
new organization start with less. That's
what Eric listen Eric's job across
everything has been to sit there and
take what he's been given and spread it
out as best he can and do the best
possible job through the community.
That's what his job. That's what the
administrator's job entails. We're here
to try to set priorities and a vision to
sit there and say, "Hey, listen,
administrator, do this. Members of the
community center, do this. We want to
see this this." We ask, so I don't
control every purse stream, right? So,
we ask, and this not a negative on the
board of finance, don't get me wrong,
but if the board of finance sets the
priorities to do certain things, they're
going to set financial priorities. I
can't spend that money. And okay, we got
to live with it. But that's where you
got to look at the board of finance. And
this is why I had the conversation with
the tri board meeting. I've got an issue
with the town administrator's position
and I've got an issue with community
center. Those are my two my two as a
member of this board. Only one member,
please. Only one member. But as my those
are the two issues. Those are financial
issues I have to raise more forcefully
with the board of finance to get them to
understand that we need to push money
into these to gain the correct value.
That's so yeah. Now Liz from the board
of finance have that.
>> Oh, so I my question um
getting back to a point that you
mentioned earlier was revenue generating
revenue and is I guess what are you
doing to track the revenue that's been
coming in? Um can we see some kind of
report from that? And I mean, cuz I see
some of these programs are really
expensive.
>> Which one?
>> Um, well, the yoga
>> massage, the chair massage one.
>> Uh, yeah. Oh, the chair, I'm sorry, the
chair massage. Um,
>> the stained glass.
>> Yeah, the stained glass that I went to,
which was really fun. Um, and uh, that
was that was expensive. It was $65.
And I guess it would be my question is
is that all going to the teacher? And if
someone's coming in to provide some kind
of a a lesson like that, I think they
should
I don't know the price should be
negotiated I think a little better or
and or part of that should be should go
to revenue to the senior center.
>> So it should be rent or use of the
facility.
>> Yes. Right. to generate
>> and listen those are all things that we
need to get to we need to come back to
you and work with you to understand how
it's doing but yes
>> I mean listen I will tell you the truth
that we're getting in trouble
what should happen for the town of Ando
and the community center is the after
school program and the school should be
incorporated into the community center
that's not going to be popular with the
parents and the PTA and the people that
are running that program
>> why not that benefits the whole
community of course Of course it should
and and the money that's generated from
that program should be able to assist in
funding you know the director assistant
director and the other directors and the
employees that work with the kids over
there and it would integrate us for just
like every other community if you went
to Marble and you went to Hebrin and you
went to the our our surrounding
communities it's all run that way and
that's something chef no we never had a
community center right
>> and we never had a community center
director so the school I understand when
my children abused that program.
That's how it was run. If you wanted
after school, before and after school,
that's how you did it. Times are
changing. Those are things that should
be considered.
>> I'm just saying,
>> Liz, I I I hear what you're saying. And
yes, some of these are do appear
expensive. Um, but it is hard to find
volunteers that will come in,
professional artists that come in, um,
chair yoga. I think a man is worth his
wages as well. And so for them to come
in and that's part of their livelihood,
then absolutely I think they should be
paid. Do I think that a lot of these
things should be free? Absolutely. So
how do we how do we generate that?
>> I think she's talking about something
different. I think she's sitting there
saying if you're charging money
>> Yeah. Is 25% of that fee allowed to sit
there and go into a to a a pool of
monies to offset different other
programs for the seniors and for
everybody else? Where is that money
going and how is that money being
tracked? It's more of an accounting
board of finance.
>> So the money is being tracked and
submitted deposit monthly to
>> the treasur
>> the treasurer's office. Um the P
currently right now, and this is just
what was set before I walked in the
door, um it's a flat fee per head of
attendees, which means if we're charging
$7 for chair yoga, it's a much bigger
percentage than the uh $32 chair
massage. Does that make s kind of make
sense to people?
>> And so that's where we had we had to
start somewhere.
>> We had to start somewhere. And so when
you say per head, what are you talking
about? When it's $2 or $3
for it's $2 per head for town residents
and $3 per head for um out of town
residents. And so
>> and the remainder goes to the
instructor.
>> And the remainder goes to the
instructor. So, if we sat there and used
the $32
chair massage,
>> $29 goes to the individual giving the
chair massage and $3 per person goes to
the community center.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> That that that's clear and
understandable now.
>> Yep. And now to just one other question
on that because I and I think this is
for Julie. Um you had mentioned that in
another town you pay $15 a year to go
there. Oh, not there.
>> $15 for your lifime. For your Oh, for
your lifetime.
>> You get a a lanyard with a photo and a
membership number that you put up to a
lock.
>> Okay.
>> A reader outside the door to get in.
>> And what does that do?
>> Doors are locked all day and all night.
>> Okay. So, I guess I'm I'm wondering what
the benefit of the $15 door is. It is it
>> it's just for entrance.
>> Just for entrance. So, do you get a a
special rate as a member or or
>> would you pay for other services in
Bolton?
>> Absolutely.
>> Okay.
>> And those higher fees are
>> This is why I've been waving my hand.
That's not a price that's special for a
senior center.
>> Okay. No, I was just curious.
>> If you want to go to a salon and have a
pedicure, you're going to pay that
amount of money.
>> Oh, I don't trust you. No, I mean these
people are doing it for their living. So
they they're not going to come out here
for a reduced rate really.
>> And I'm sure if you two directors here,
co-directors go and talk to people in
the
senior centers in greater town area,
you're going to find the same kinds of
prices,
>> right?
>> Because I had a pedicure at Boulder
>> and it's up there. It's not. It's like
if I went to a place at Evergreen Mall
or something. That's those are the going
rates.
>> Oh, yeah. I I'm not just
It's not the It's not the rate. And what
you did for us is you told us that other
senior centers charge for services. So,
that helps us out. Now, the question is,
are we charging enough? And that not you
guys are just doing a new program. It's
fine. We're working toward it. Um
>> I think there's a few ways that can help
to generate more revenue and uh distri
distribute it a little bit more fairly
from the you know I have the the view of
being the person running programming as
well not just from an administrative
standpoint but as the teacher right and
so if it's moved rather than a flat rate
to a percentage base then you would be
getting a larger percentage for those
more expensive offerings. And the people
trying to teach something for very
little amount of dollars aren't having
to pay out necessarily as much of their
the money coming in. But the bigger
thing that this space can be used for to
help generate funds is events,
>> right? So renting it out to members of
the community. you know, there are these
these routes we could take to help to
increase um revenues to help offset some
of this stuff. Um and
>> we just need the board to approve the
facility usage forms and we can move
forward with that as well. So what price
um and how and that's the way the board
can help us is to approve those. And for
our next meeting, can you get usage fees
for Ingram Marlo Columbia?
>> Yeah, because I think that's another
thing where maybe we we all in the town
might have wavered back and forth,
right? Like we want it to be really,
this is the community center. We want it
to be really expensive for the community
members. Yeah. But if it's but if it's
so inexpensive that it's like we're
undercutting ourselves, you know, some
of the rates we've explored is like $25
an hour. And you know, if that's what we
go with, fabulous. But if one of the
issues is we can't properly staff this
building because we don't have the money
and your average rental hall runs $200
an hour. you know, I want it to be
inexpensive for town members, but maybe
25 is a little too low realistically.
Realistically,
um, and maybe that's just something we
can kind of like explore, talk about,
hash out as a community, you know,
because I can see, you know, we need
really need to weigh that,
>> right?
>> What is that, Jeff?
Uh, I had to talk to my board members if
you don't mind.
>> Uh, so, um, one thing I'd like to ask,
Haley, is you run how many chair yoga
programs here?
>> Um, so I have two chair programs. One's
chair yoga, one is resistance, a
resistance band class, and then I have a
community like floorbased offering. And
then I kind of oversee the sewing group
which is free to attend.
>> Okay. So you have four
classes that are paid for,
>> right?
>> Three classes that are paid for and one
is free to attend.
>> One is free to attend. And how how is
the attendance in those programs? Um,
chair yoga has anywhere between 8 and 12
people weekly and resistance band is has
also been falling somewhere between five
and 11 people weekly.
>> All right. And just so I understand and
the group understands they're $5 each
session, some $7.
>> Seven. So both of them are $7.
>> Okay. So, so a class generates somewhere
between $10 and $20 for the community
center and you get the rest of the
funding the money from those from
running those programs. Yes.
>> Okay.
>> And those are not included in the 19
hours that you're
>> correct. That is outside.
>> Outside. Okay. So, and how many of those
types of programs do we run on a weekly
basis
>> currently? Right now, let's see. We run
the four listed and then we have the
massage and the um Linda's community
evening Thursday night yoga. So that
puts us at six. Um we are on the hunt
for a new uh foot person um because our
person just left, but normally we have
had that and it's been running. And then
we have two haircut options. So that
puts us at nine.
>> Um,
>> so I think it goes to Liz's issue just
for all of us. Can you give us for our
next board of selecting meeting, can we
get a revenue summary for the last four
months?
>> Yes.
>> Right. and sit there and let us know
what the the the community center has
generated,
>> you know, because what's happening and
I'll just go from an accounting
standpoint.
>> It's going over the treasures office and
it's getting dumped in the general fund.
>> No, where's it going?
>> We have we have our own
>> it's going into account.
>> We have an account.
>> So So last year
>> get get us the report from the L account
for next month. I can do it this month.
>> Right. And that would be helpful to know
what's there because it will help us as
a board go, okay, here's funding that we
can sit there and and deal with the
additional hours and the additional
support, you know, before we go to the
board of of finance and say you got to
increase the total
line item in by X, Y, or Z, whatever we
come to.
>> I can just ask question. Is it going
into the programs liability account or
the senior launch liability account?
I'll I'll tell you there used to be one
liability account for the community and
senior center. Um we requested last year
that that get split into three. So one
for trips, one for uh programs and one
for the lunchon. So whenever we have a
lunch in that money that we have um the
revenue has come in that goes back into
the lunchon. So for for this um
Christmas party we're taking out of the
lunchon. We could technically maybe take
it out of the trips as well because it
is sort of a trip but
but definitely don't.
>> Can I just ask? So you have three
liability accounts is what one liability
>> one liability account just three
categories
>> three categories. So that probably is
the old senior lunch liability account.
It used to be the senior lunch. And so
when January came, it was after January
that we had requested that um the board
of finance split that into sort of like
three line items for us. And so we know
how much money is going in from those
different places. Yeah.
>> Right. Because we've always had the
three within the budget because I've
noticed that the senior lunch has
substantially increased. There's $12,000
now that's been budgeted for that.
That's a lot more than it ever was. The
trips is at 4,000.
>> Correct.
>> And programs are also at 4,000 now.
>> So when this money goes into the
liability account, it doesn't go back
into the general fund. It's just going
to roll over every year.
>> Correct.
>> But what we need what we need to do is
reduce the expense, especially on senior
lunch. We're over budget.
>> So So what happened?
We're not over budget because we have
$12,000 that was put into this fiscal
year. I know in the past we had but we
did fundraisers.
>> Right. So, so I'll say this
spending last year
spending
for lunches providing lunchons at $5
after December would not have sustained
itself. That we would have gone well
over budget. And so my solution was to
up the charge of those lunchons from 5
to7 to $10 to help one bring in revenue
and two to help offset the cost and to
make it through to the end of that
budget season. And so what happened
>> did we
>> um
>> I'm just asking
>> so I uh
>> I wasn't here during that time.
>> Okay. Did we make that did we as June
30th 2025 with senior lunch and over
budget
>> so okay with the offsetting funding out
of the L account
>> let's talk about that in our next
meeting
>> I don't know my hand
>> and then two not only offsetting from
there but the money could also with
trips and programs would have because
usually within the budget if one
department overextends on a certain line
but under spends one another that just
gets moved. But it's all within and this
the senior trips programs and lunchon is
reported under a separate department
that's separate from the community
center budget. So
>> well it'll help the board of finance.
>> She's writing down.
>> So so I do I I will I will say this what
was is not what is. And so we are
generating a whole lot more programs. We
are generating a whole lot more um trips
and um lunches as well.
>> Have you had a decrease in the lunch
count?
>> No.
>> Okay. Right.
>> In in in people coming in.
>> No. No. It's it ranges 25 to 30,
sometimes 35.
>> Yeah. And so so I think that it's it's
it's fair to say that um we do have a
larger budget than last year for
lunches. We are spending that. We do
have to be careful. What we would like
to see is the kitchen fixed so that we
can um decrease those and and it would
be great to not charge anything. Um and
I think that once that gets completed
>> You didn't say that.
>> No, I did.
>> Well, I agree with
>> I'm sorry. I that was where I was going
too. We have 12,000 in the senior lunch
program. Why are we charging our
seniors? We have a That's a lot of
>> Well, I agree.
Listen, I I think part of it is too. We
were spending $570
for one lunch on a Friday. That's not
sustainable to have that.
>> I'm sorry. I'm going to tell you, non
seniors, I'm not a negative person, but
if you're getting lunch, you got to pay
for it. I mean, I would love to do it
for free. And I know if you didn't get a
drop off by moving from 5 to 7 to 10,
the seniors are coming for the level of
community as much for the food
>> and and the fellowship.
>> And the fellowship. Yeah. So, so you've
got to charge because if you don't
charge, we will have a difficult time
increasing hours,
>> right? So, all of this information that
you're bringing to us now, and I'm
assuming the seniors would support more
hours if they have to put a little bit
of money into the lunch program or a
little bit money into another program to
have more hours and more more staff in
here.
>> Am I wrong?
>> Julia, am I wrong? You'll you'll you
agree with me?
>> You're not wrong.
Um,
>> I'll tell you how they do it in the
other senior centers that are well
established.
>> They don't have a general lunch. We do
here. They have a kitchen staff
>> and three or four days a week.
They put out a menu
uh in a in a program like this. They
have a kitchen menu and you have to sign
up by 8:00 the day before you want to
go. I was going to take Helina so she
could see it, but I missed the deadline
and we've been too busy coming here.
Okay.
>> So anyway, um it's a separate entity and
they don't charge $5.
They charge I don't know whether it's
$12.95 or $15 for lunch.
>> Well, we all we have to ask ourselves we
have to ask ourselves from my stand
food and and senior lunches are if the
senior needs assistance and they need
they need the the meal, I have no
problem doing it for free. But if it's
if it's community and we're trying to
bring everybody together and we can
offer a high enough quality meal, we've
got to charge for it because if not,
then we're just going to the board of
finance and saying, "I need money,
money, money, money, money." And this
town is not built that way.
>> Yeah.
>> This is not built,
>> right?
>> Why don't we charge the school kids 12
bucks a meal?
>> Eric,
>> it's good that you're sitting there.
Please
>> stay quiet.
>> Liz,
>> hi. So, did I did I understand this
right that Okay, so now we're
>> the lunch budget is up to $12,000 and
and we're over budget. Is that right?
>> Not yet.
>> We are not currently over budget. We are
stretching it. We have increased the
amount of lunches that we're offering
per month. I which I think is
appropriate considering of how much of
an increase the town granted us. Um
we're very happy about it. We brought
that price back down to $5. Um, which
you know, some towns charge less, some
towns charge more, but we, one of the
goals we had that we could agree on was
getting it to at least once a week, you
know, only having two or three a month.
Other senior centers are offering lunch.
Some are every day, some are three times
a week, and like
doing it at least once a week. And so
that was one of the goals with this big
increase getting the lunch down. You
know, for some seniors 10 was too much.
So we brought it back down to $5 and
then we added it to added to the
schedule to make it more regular and now
it's every single Wednesday.
>> Okay. So now it's once a week. So the
reason I'm trying I guess I'm trying was
trying to understand why with a $12,000
budget which is higher than it used to
be, why is it so close? And you're
saying you've increased the frequency of
the lunches, right?
>> Yes. And we're not necessarily over
budget this year. Where we went over
budget was the last fiscal year.
>> And so
>> June 20th,
>> the June. Yeah. So that we we did
technically go over lunches then. Um I
want to know we were under on
transportation.
>> One second.
>> I want to know how much they've
collected to offset that overspend
>> and because I'm not sure that it's
getting reported to us that way. like I
sit there and we have to identify the
lines on the budget that have revenue
associated with them
>> and we have to get a better job of that
done so that when we see those line
items Eric and we know we have some
revenue to offset that so if there's a
negative on the budget line items I know
there's revenue to offset that
>> and if we can get that and we can put
that together now Haley keep going
>> can I just ask one thing and I'm sorry
to interrupt him but um for the lunches
I know that when Kathy did them, it was
twice a month. She did two Fridays a
month. Now, I know you switched it to
Wednesdays. So, two of the Wednesdays
are hot lunches, if I understand this
correctly. And the other two is when you
have card games and maybe sandwiches and
light snacks. Is that correct? So, it's
not really a full lunch.
>> It's it's what I would call a cold
lunch. And so, we do it's with bingo is
the game. So, now we because we had a
request for increased bingo as well. So,
the two cold lunch days,
>> two to three,
>> we two to three, depending if there's a
a fifth Wednesday of the month. Okay.
>> We do um bingo and we have sandwiches
and the sandwiches are served with
fruit, salad, chips, and dessert. So,
what I would argue is a, you know, nice
full lunch,
>> a normal lunch.
>> And is that free for the seniors? I know
they pay for bingo cards.
>> It is also $5. It's $5. Does that
>> include their bingo card?
>> Yes, it does.
>> Okay. So, all right.
>> And normally the bingo cards are a
couple dollars, $2.
>> I think we were charging a dollar before
per bingo card. And so, they get two
bingo cards with their $5 ticket for
lunch.
>> Okay.
>> And it it's just a cold lunch, not a hot
lunch.
>> Um, can I just ask a question? Um,
regarding that,
>> um, we have I work for the, uh, NCAA
volunteer and, uh, I'm the vice
president of our advisory and we have
money, um, for lunches. And if you want
to apply for that grant, um, I know that
you will be able to do so because we've
never had it for annual. This would be
the year we get it for annual if you
wish. And you can ask how many days if
you wanted, one day, two days, three,
whatever days you wanted. If you want to
do your little lunch, you know, you
still have your hot lunches on
Wednesdays.
>> Yeah,
>> absolutely. Thank you. Thank you.
>> You're welcome.
>> So, I will say this, we do partner with
Cheni Tech. Chenite Tech when they come,
they have a full meal and so um because
we would be extra for salad, we can do
provide salad for everybody that comes.
30 people for under uh $20, right, Kim?
And so we can provide salad $20. I'm
sure it would be much more expensive if
we we had them do it. Um they provide
the hot lunch, um bread, rolls,
condiments. Um they provide the meal
itself and dessert. And it's not just
cookies. It is uh it is a dessert. Um I
can't eat it, but uh it looks really
good. Any um so, so I will say this, it
costs about $3 to $400 for that. So $5,
uh Liz, $5 everybody comes, right? And
then everything is it's discounted to
five and then the senior center with
that $12,500
puts in the extra. And so so is it for
free? No. But it is at least coming back
somewhat. We are getting some revenue
towards that. So it will offset it.
>> Those are really good details to have to
present.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> When the time comes.
>> Can I just ask one other thing too? I
know that CRT does a lot of the meals
for surrounding like Columbia has three
days a week. They charge $3 and they
have a lot of really nice meals there.
They do hire someone to come in
>> to take those meals, put them together.
>> CRT CRT CRT CRT.
>> What is that?
>> Community renewal team.
>> Okay. Thank you.
So they hire someone, as a matter of
fact resident, to go in there and
prepare that and serve, and I'm sure
they buy extra stuff like the fruit and
things like that just to supplement
these meals. Um, but I know they're
really cheap to buy. I know it's CRT and
there's one other one that will that
provides the same ones, too. So
>> those are terrible things.
>> You try I'm telling you I Columbia. I
didn't like it.
>> Wow. They had a lot of people when I was
there.
>> They do cuz there's a lot of
>> Sounds like a good resource.
>> Justin
people.
>> Listen, I will uh we're only going to go
15 minutes long.
>> So, it's two hours.
>> I'm sorry. It'll be two hours.
>> Julia took up a quarter of our time.
>> Thank you, Julia.
She always does. I would uh
>> I would like to recommend that we do
this quarterly.
>> Thank you. Good idea.
>> All right. And and we invite more
seniors in and
>> you know the more seniors the better.
This is more of an open discussion as to
what can be done better and so we should
do this quarterly. Um we should get Liz
as many members of the board of finance
as we possibly can get to show up if
they are free. No, because I do think
it's good that we all hear the same.
>> You're right.
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
>> It's better to hear the same stuff than
>> Jeff. Not only seniors, but I think you
should get some of the younger community
people because this is a community/
senior center. Absolutely.
>> And you see what what they want.
>> It is. But we have to build in small
steps, right?
>> Find out what they want.
>> We've got to get our Listen, the
seniors.
>> We did have the survey, too.
>> I love surveys. I give
>> the seniors have never been treated
properly within the town of Daniel as
far as long as I've been in ever really.
I mean
>> I I don't think uh
>> we had the resources now we have a
building that has resources. Let's work
the seniors as hard as we can and then
the the the the parent the parents and
the school all down. I really think Tess
you're working with the superintendent
and doing some of those is really
positive. I think it it can only benefit
how this building is interacted with.
>> Right. So, I'm I am 100% fair. I know
Ann's been waiting. She's got to say
something.
>> I'm in favor of
>> I think that a lot of the community
stuff. We talked about the AES school.
We talked about the seniors. I think the
teens are group and they could they
would love have a place to be in the
evening and that's when the seniors
aren't here. So, it would be a great
thing to have if it's a drop in in the
lounge area or something else. Uh I know
my daughter used the West Hartford Teen
Center which was in their library. They
had a big library. But, um that kind of
thing would really be great to open up.
get hooked up with a few of the teams
and then they'd probably spread the word
and or they might be able to be a
resource as to what they're looking
>> if if you get appropriate volunteer to
run the program.
>> Correct.
>> It is investment hours on our end to get
it going and then pass the big so
that absolutely that could be done
upstairs even before the basement's
finished. I I would um
>> sorry,
>> I'm going to recommend that the
information that be provided back for
our next meeting because I am um
we're not going to be able to make any
decisions of consequence today.
>> All right. So, just letting everybody
know and I'm sorry the president is
staying wrapped for too long. You torn
those you torn it over everybody else.
That's important.
>> I'm glad you like my metaphor.
>> So, Jeff, thank you. I I think that this
whole thing was a catalyst for change
and I am excited about what's to come.
I'm excited about um about the future
for Community Senior Center and and a
working relationship with the board of
selectment.
>> Okay. Uh we only have 10 minutes left.
So Julia, you have one minute.
>> One minute,
>> but I'm not even starting to get clean.
>> Well,
I enjoyed the meeting. I'm glad to hear
everything that we discussed. Um, we do
need extra help for these ladies because
we all work, so we know how it is when
you have to put extra work. in minimum
time.
But all the programs that are coming
that I've noticed especially from the
time I joined it last year, it's
tremendous.
>> All right. Thank you.
>> Tremendous.
>> It grew more than 100%.
>> I enjoyed the various activities too.
And I particularly like the fact that
somebody who can't drive
um can come here to get a haircut, get a
pedicure, and a neck massage, you're
going to pay the same price that's
charged here out at Evergreen Walk or
some public storefront
>> and you don't have to travel. to be able
to get those in in town for people who
can't drive is really exceptionally
good.
>> Thank you.
>> 10 seconds.
>> I really appreciate
>> I really appreciate you allowing me to
speak extra and I I'm happy that all the
points have been raised and absorbed and
addressed. Thank you.
Um, Cat Boss,
>> you
>> I know. I'm thinking No, I seriously
think this has been a very informative
meeting.
>> Um, I actually like what Tess and Healey
have said. I I appreciate the senior
speaking and the board of starkman
taking their time to listen, but uh I I
would like I would like to see this all
happen. Again, I'm saying we need money
to make this happen,
>> right? And it's a long slow.
>> Yes. And one one other quick thing.
>> Well, I see you in on the thing I want
to just uh have us say is the fact that
we um we can do this. Seriously, we can
do this. I know that we can make it
happen. I know we can do it. Jeff
>> Diane.
>> Okay. Um I I agree with what everybody
has said. Um Kathy says we need funding.
U Yes we do. money is always whatever,
but we also need the volunteers. I think
it's the community needs to step up. Um,
I know all the boards of commissions in
town are all volunteers. We do have a
lot of volunteers in town, but there's a
lot of people in town that don't
volunteer and all we need is people to
do one little piece. You know, you don't
have to do a lot, just some little piece
to volunteer. And I think that would be
very helpful. And I'm looking forward to
the day that you do have the the
basement finished. And I think that
would be a great place for um the senior
not the seniors, the the teenagers um
place for them to hang out. So I I think
um getting getting the basement done is
um I know it's on your list and that'll
be a great day and I wish you had a
piano here also.
>> I'd love the piano idea. Um I really
appreciate hearing everybody's ideas. Um
appreciate seeing the vision and where
it wants to go and um looking forward to
working together with board of selectmen
and um our board see how we can help.
And I also would like to somehow
encourage more volunteerism because a
lot of the stuff could be done if some
people will step up and just give a
couple hours here and there.
>> Oh, I have one more.
>> Wait, no.
>> Kim Kim who volunteers all kinds of
time.
>> Yes. Yes, Kim.
>> I've enjoyed volunteering down here. We
have a lot of fun. But I've also enjoyed
watching Tess and Haley work together.
There's a lot of new things they've
incorporated down here and I just like
to see that continue. That's right,
>> Elaine.
>> I'm good.
>> You're good.
>> You get 10 seconds. Go.
>> I I think um when you're counting 10
hours for the transportation, I think
when you talk to Linda, you're going to
find out she really puts in way way more
than 10 hours.
>> And that's and that's doing everything
that needs to be done.
>> Can I have 10 more seconds?
>> No.
>> I thought of a really good idea. When
the library needs things that are not in
the budget, they have the Andover
friends of the library group and those
members, Diane's very familiar with it,
help us get new video, uh, computers,
whatever we need. So that's a possible
uh group that we might have uh emerge
here in handover for the Andover friends
of the senior community center.
>> Joe, I think the senior center has done
tremendous for the first year.
>> I hope he gets supported through next
year build on what you've done already.
>> Did you hear us all?
>> Very much.
>> Good. I say that.
>> I have to tell you, Eric, Eric, I am
really impressed with the sound.
>> Gorgeous. It's really
>> I mean this is so much better than that
building.
>> Oh yeah. It's better than it was when
without
>> Thank you.
>> Eric, you get the last word. What do you
want?
>> When your thoughts
>> and be nice to us,
>> um I think the town spends $8.5 million
a year on the under 19 segment. it can
open up its wallet a little bit for the
over 65 segment.
>> It's since they're the ones that are the
taxpayers.
>> Um so I
I think given
uh out of a sense of fairness, the two
most vulnerable
communities in the town are youth and
seniors. Um we obviously spend a
disproportionately
higher amount on youth, but ation is
very expensive in the grand scheme of
things. We can afford the additional
programming funds for these seniors.
>> He is he is 100% correct. But listen
listen this is this is a this is a
global thing. This is a global thing.
>> Local taxes are disproportionately spent
on younger citizens and federal taxes
are disproportionately spent on on on
senior citizens.
police. It all needs to get done. We all
need to work together to do what's right
for the seniors and for this building.
But that's that's the reality of what we
deal with in our world. And I I really
don't want a a huge argument to to go
from that standpoint that we need to do
a better job for seniors. That is
absolutely it's been that way since I
joined the board back when Julia was on.
And you know, we've got to do a better
job. So, Eric, I appreciate that, but I
also want everybody to know it's just
the way the system is built.
>> Just the way the system is built and we
need to understand that.
And the seniors deserve more and the
children deserve the best possible
education we can give.
>> So, in closing, I would like
>> You're going to finish this.
>> No. Well, in my go
>> I would like to make a request to keep
Haley on as a employed by the town
as as we can agree on the title but um
at least 19 hours to 30 hours.
>> Okay,
>> by the next meeting that will be dealt
with. Okay. I I'm I'm telling you right
now, I can't sit there and and deal with
it tonight and today, but I promise that
by our next meeting, there will be a
public vote on.
Okay? You understand where I'm coming
from, there will be a public vote on
that at our next meeting on November
10th.
And I'll deal with the board of finance
as to where the money's coming.
>> You know what? Good luck. I'm retired.
I'll find some fun.
>> Anybody else?
>> Okay. Did I miss anybody in public
speaking? Is anybody want to say
anything else?
>> All right. Good. I make a motion to
adjurnn.
>> Okay.
>> Not second. You know,